**Objectives**
 - describe <ins>Newton's three laws of motion</ins>
 - explain <ins>how Newton's three laws of motion relate to momentum</ins>
 - define <ins>mass</ins>, <ins>volume</ins>, and <ins>density</ins> and <ins>how they differ</ins>
 - define <ins>angular momentum</ins>

Newton's Laws of Motion
---
**Newton’s first law**
- Every object will continue to be in a state of rest or move at a constant speed in a straight line unless it is compelled to change by an outside force.

**Newton’s second law**
- The change of motion of a body is proportional to and in the direction of the force acting on it.

**Newton’s third law**
- For every action there is an equal and opposite reaction (or: the mutual actions of two bodies upon each other are always equal and act in opposite directions).

**velocity** - the speed and direction of motion, for example, 35 kph due south

**speed** - how fast a body moves, for example 35 kph

Mass, Volume and Density
---
**mass** - is a measure of the amount of material within an object

**volume** - is the measure of the physical space it occupies, it is measured in cubic units sucha as cubic centimeters or liters.

**density** - is the measure of how much mass there is per unit volume, specifically, density is mass divided by the volume.

To sum up, **mass** is _how much_, **volume** is _how big_, and **density** is _how tightly packed_.

Angular Momentum
---
**angular momentum** - is a measure of the rotation of a body as it revolves around some fixed point (an example is a planet orbiting the Sun). The angular momentum of an object is defined as the product of its mass, its velocity, and its distance from the fixed point around which it revolves.

